# Multivariate-Forecasting-using-KERAS-tensorflow-RNN-LSTM-BC-hydro-load-froecasting

This project is a forecasting model. This model forecast BC Hydro's electrical load for the next 24 hour of the given input.In this model load data input is BC Hydro’s year 2020 load data and Vancouver’s temperature and humidity for the year 2020. Here a single layered LSTM network model has been used. Model architecture has been built using Keras(TensorFlow). 64 input neurons in LSTM input layer and 64 neurons of dropout layer and one output(dense) layer. Dropout is a popular regularization technique for deep neural networks presented by Srivastava et al. The technique prevents feedforward neural networks from overfitting by randomly “dropping” a percentage of its nodes from the neural network during training. Data sequence size is 24(model will take 24 inputs and give 1 output for 25th position). Data sequence larger than 24 results from reduced accuracy, data sequence of 48 gives larger RMSE( train rmse-115). So, data Sequence of 24 is the optimized one for this model. Also, a model with double LSTM layer has been tested but it results from reduced accuracy So, single layer LSTM model has been chosen. Model optimizer is adam. 176 epochs have been used. Epoch more than 176 reduces accuracy. As after almost 178 epochs the model faces vanishing gradient problem. Batch size is 16 here. It gives a good accuracy level but with high training time. Increasing batch size will reduce the training time but it will hamper the accuracy level. For this model batch size of 16 is an optimized one. Figure-9 explains the scenario of not having epochs more than 176. From this figure it can be said that after 176 epochs the training and validation loss curves stats increasing positively. So, 176 epochs is the optimized epoch number.

